Hello, everyone, my name is Jen Kramer.
I am a instructor, I've been teaching
HTML and CSS for over 20 years.
Most recently at Harvard University, but I
have taught in all kinds of environments,
academic and commercial environments,
workshops and online courses,
all kinds of other things.
And I am so excited to present
to you the second version
of my course on CSS Grids and
Flexbox layouts.
Let's take a look at all of the cool
things that you're gonna learn inside
of this course.
First we're gonna start with Flexbox.
And we're gonna take a look at all types
of different Flexbox properties and
how you can set up Grid based layout
systems using Flexbox across of course,
all of the various media queries.
We'll move on to a cool trick
that we can use with figures and
figure captions among other
types of HTML markup.
This is going to allow us to
layer our figure captions on
top of figures here for
a really lovely looking web page.
And then we're going to put together
those two pieces of learning that
Grid system and this concept of
wearing our captions with the figures
into a webpage project here,
the first part of it.
Where we will lay out a series of
images here with lovely overlays
describing all of these
various types of images.
We'll take a quick peek at CSS shapes, and
look at the lovely way we can make
our texts go on a slant like this.
And of course we'll work
on our footer layout and
that will work across
our various breakpoints.
So of course, we're gonna go to different
layouts as we hit our different
breakpoints here in that
particular web page.
Then we'll move on to adding a header and
a footer for our web page we'll look at
Flexbox and how we can make very
interesting looking navbars.
Here is an example where we have our
logo in the middle of the navbar.
And then as we squash
the screen down here,
we wind up with the navbar underneath,
the logo on the top.
And then, finally,
we'll turn our navigation into
a series of buttons, all using CSS.
Then we'll move on to adding
responsive images to the website.
We'll talk about the various approaches
to these responsive images including
the picture element.
We'll look at source set and sizes as
ways of loading responsive images.
And we'll include this hero element on
the page as well as a featured print.
And then using those responsive images
depending on what break point we have to
be looking at we'll look at different
versions of that picture on the web page.
Finally to wrap up the flexbox
portion of this course,
we will move on to adding the popular
prints section of this homepage for
a fully completed homepage by the end
of the Flexbox unit of a course.
Then we'll move on to CSS Grid.
As always, we'll start with looking
at the various individual properties.
And we'll do that by looking at
a painting by Piet Mondrian and
we'll code it up with CSS Grid.
Then we're going to look at the same
kind of figure and figure caption
tricks that we did with Flexbox using
absolute and relative positioning.
Now we're going to make that
happen instead using CSS Grid and
Grids, fantastic ability to overlap cells.
And so we don't need to use
absolute relative positioning,
we can just use Grid to
overlap those cells.
That also means we can do other kinds
of cool things with Grid like this by
overlapping two figures and
using CSS animation to fade in and
out different pictures on the web page.
We'll move on to adding a different
section of the homepage.
In this case it will be
a mosaic based layout,
where we'll have all different types
of pictures of different heights and
widths and spanning over rows and
columns inside of our layout.
And of course, we'll wind up
making that responsive as well.
We'll then take a look at
some magazine style Lance.
So here we've got a series of cats
on our page, and they have different
placements in different sizes and
different images and so forth.
We'll look at how easily we can make that
kind of magic happen without any math.
And just simply assigning a few classes
and changing a few properties so
you can achieve these types of layouts.
And finally, we'll do a very
cool trick here with cards.
So we'll create cards that have one
particular layout here on desktop,
they'll move on to a very
different kind of layout.
Notice how we had the image in
the middle of the text here.
Now we've got the image on the left
the text on the right, with Grid.
And then finally back to a different type
of layout here on mobile devices and
we'll walk through how we can do that,
making use of Flexbox and
Grid and more Grid inside of Grid.
And then finally, we'll build our final
website where you have lots of choices for
how that might look, this happens to
be the way that I came up with it.
Another mosaic style layout of a bunch
of beautiful donut pictures, and
a cool overlay of the text here on top of
one of the images inside of the Grid cell.
When we get to smaller dimensions
that text shows up first,
with the images stacked nicely underneath.
As always with this course, it comes with
a website which will give you all of
the background information,
all of the links to the various code pens.
Some additional pointers and
guidance along the way as we
work through the information.
It's broken up into a chunk of
material pertaining to Flexbox and
a chunk of material pertaining to Grids.
So you can refer to this as you work
through the materials on the course.
And finally, all of the files
are available on GitHub so
you can download all of the files and
follow along with everything that
I'm doing here in the course.
I am really excited to be recording
an update to the Flexbox in Grid course.
I've reworked, almost all of the material
from the original version of this course.
And I'm including all kinds
of new techniques and
new inspirations for you that I
hope will inspire you to make more
interesting layouts using Flexbox and
Grid.
So let's get started.